---
description: 'Kicker A short, catchy word or phrase over a major headline.[citation needed]  Headline Main article: Headline The headline (also heading, head or title, or hed'
author: []
datePublished: '2015-10-30T11:14:55.742Z'
publisher:
  domain: www.wikiwand.com
  name: wikiwand.com
title: ''
dateModified: '2015-10-30T11:11:31.071Z'
sourcePath: _posts/2015-10-30-kicker-a-short-catchy-word-or-phrase-over-a-major-headline.md
published: true
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
url: kicker-a-short-catchy-word-or-phrase-over-a-major-headline/index.html
_context: 'http://schema.org'
_type: Article

---
Kicker A short, catchy word or phrase over a major headline.\[citation needed\] Headline Main article: Headline The headline (also heading, head or title, or hed in journalism jargon\[3\]) of a story is typically a complete sentence (e.g., "Pilot Flies Below Bridges to Save Divers"), often with auxiliary verbs and articles removed (e.g., "Remains at Colorado camp linked to missing Chicago man"). However, headlines sometimes omit the subject (e.g., "Jumps From Boat, Catches in Wheel") or verb (e.g., "Cat woman lucky").\[4\] Subhead A subhead (also sub-headline, subheading, subtitle or deck; subhed or dek in journalism jargon) can be either a subordinate title under the main headline, or the heading of a subsection of the article.\[5\]\[full citation needed\]; the first is meant here In the first case, it is a heading that precedes a group of paragraphs of the main text. It informs the reader of the topic in those paragraphs, helping the reader to choose to begin (or continue) reading. Articles should have more than one subhead. Subheads are one type of entry point that help readers make choices. Billboard An article billboard is capsule summary text, often just one sentence or fragment, which is put into a sidebar or text box (reminiscent of an outdoor billboard) on the same page to grab the reader's attention as they are flipping through the pages to encourage them to stop and read that article. When it consists of a (sometimes compressed) sample of the text of the ariticle, it is known as a call-out or callout, and when it consists of a quotation (e.g. of an article subject, informant, or interviewee), it is referred to as a pulled quotation or pull quote. Additional billboards of any of these types may appear later in the article (especially on subsequent pages) to entice further reading. Journalistic websites sometimes use animation techniques to swap one billboard for another (e.g. a slide of a call-out may be replaced by a photo with pull quote after some short time has elapsed). Such billboards are also used as pointers to the article in other sections of the publication or site, or as advertisements for the piece in other publication or sites. Lead Main article: Lead paragraph The most important structural element of a story is the lead (also intro), including the story's first, or leading, sentence or two, which may or may not form its own paragraph. Some American English writers use the spelling lede /ˈliːd/, from Early Modern English, to avoid confusion with the printing press type formerly made from the metal lead or the related typographical term "leading".\[6\] Charney states that "an effective lead is a 'brief, sharp statement of the story's essential facts.'"\[7\]\[full citation needed\]\[clarification needed\] The lead is usually the first sentence, or in some cases the first two sentences, and is ideally 20--25 words in length. The top-loading principle (putting the most important information first---see inverted pyramid section below) applies especially to leads, but the unreadability of long sentences constrains the lead's size. This makes writing a lead an optimization problem, in which the goal is to articulate the most encompassing and interesting statement that a writer can make in one sentence, given the material with which he or she has to work. While a rule of thumb says the lead should answer most or all of the five Ws, few leads can fit all of these. To "bury the lead" is to begin the article with background information or details of secondary importance to the readers, forcing them to read more deeply into an article than they should have to in order to discover the essential point(s). Burying the lead is a characteristic of an academic writing style.\[8\] It is also a common mistake in press releases.\[9\] Article leads are sometimes categorized into hard leads and soft leads. A hard lead aims to provide a comprehensive thesis which tells the reader what the article will cover. A soft lead introduces the topic in a more creative, attention-seeking fashion, and is usually followed by a nutshell paragraph (or nut graf), a brief summary of facts.\[10\] Example hard-lead paragraph NASA is proposing another space project. The agency's budget request, announced today, included a plan to send another mission to the moon. This time the agency hopes to establish a long-term facility as a jumping-off point for other space adventures. The budget requests approximately ten billion dollars for the project. Example soft-lead sentence Humans will be going to the moon again. The NASA announcement came as the agency requested ten billion dollars of appropriations for the project. Nutshell paragraph Main article: Nut graph A nutshell paragraph (also simply nutshell, or nut 'graph, nut graf, nutgraf, etc., in journalism jargon) is a brief paragraph (occasionally there can be more than one) that summarizes the news value of the story, sometimes bullet-pointed and/or set off in a box. Nut-shell paragraphs are used particularly in feature stories (see "Feature style" below).